do you want five simple strategies to
build backlinks for your website and
boost your seo then stay tuned
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100
marketing podcast business great show if
you haven't done so yet check out my
weekly email where i'm sharing actual
website marketing tips useful podcasts
goodies resources and more each and
every monday to kick off your week with
a bang give it a shot over at
businessgrowth.email
so what are backlinks first of all well
a backlink simply put is a link from one
website
to another website backlinks are a great
way to ramp up your website's organic
rankings and positionings on google when
they're done right
so backlinks are a ranking signal for
google and depending on the authority of
the website links from some websites
back to yours can be super powerful for
your seo for your search engine
optimization your organic position on
google it's important to note that when
you are creating links they do have a do
follow tag on them and not on nofollow
tag because no follow links aren't going
to be counted by search engines so with
all that said let's jump into five
free strategies to build up backlinks
ramp up your seo and boost your traffic
your sales your revenue let's do it
so the first way to build backlinks for
free to your website is through
podcasting which is also an awesome way
to build up your pr your brand
recognition too so you want to head to a
podcasting chart based website like
charitable and what you want to do is
click on the charts you want to check
out the countries that you're targeting
so choose one of the countries and their
charts choose a category so in our case
it might be marketing but if you're in
tech you might want to choose tech or
you might want to choose it or whatever
category you are selling to pick that
and then once you go into that category
then choose a podcast type namely apple
podcast but you might want to choose
another one but usually apple podcast
takes the market share and then you'll
get the top 100 or so results the top
100 podcasts for your target market
category
then you want to pick 50 or so but you
want to check the podcasts are actually
accepting guests because you're going to
be a guest speaker or someone from your
team the guest expert is going to be on
there and then what you want to do is
check out the podcast except guests and
reach out to them you want to pitch them
so if they're b2b they're probably
hanging out on linkedin so you can send
them a personalized request there or you
can grab their email from their website
and do a nice personalized outreach i
tend to do something like this i usually
tend to listen to a little snippet of
one of their shows or check them out on
youtube and i'll say something like
let's say their name was john hey john
enjoyed your recent episode on let's say
marketing trends especially the part on
x would love to share some thoughts with
your audience i tend to talk about
unusual ways to improve your seo or how
to ramp up your website into a
conversion machine or why you should
invest in multi-channel marketing would
you be against having me on your show
and sometimes i say happy to return the
favor and have you on so a short snappy
pitch saying look this is what i enjoyed
about you and then this is how i can add
value to the audience and then a call to
action would be against
having me on your show sometimes you'll
have to send a couple follow-ups if they
don't reply or try and reach out to the
hosts of the show in a couple channels
so for example maybe on linkedin maybe
on facebook if they're there maybe email
so different ways to connect with them
many of them will accept
and then once you get yourself on the
podcast and you run the interview what
you can do is do the show of course give
a great value-based show so you build up
some pr build up some brand have a call
to action at the end where you send
people to your website or landing page
or email list or whatever you want to
guide them to and after the show is
recorded you need to ask the host of the
show when they build out their article
page or their page on their website with
the show notes you want to ask them to
put a backlink to your website for one
of your target keywords so in our case
it might be web development web
development company or seo companies or
something like that and then ask them to
link back to your site you've got a free
back link and you've also got some free
pr so using a site like chartable to
connect with relevant podcast hosts in
your industry boost your pr and get a
backlink that is the first way
the second way to build free backlinks
is through outreach so first and
foremost you want to take on the
skyscraper technique with an article or
how-to guide on your website so
you want to create a killer article page
here so for example if you're providing
crm services you might do something
let's say your niche was the finance
industry you might do something like how
to pick the best finance crm so what you
want to do is first off head to google
search for literally that keyword how to
pick the best finance crm see what are
the top 10 or so organic listings look
at those web pages look at how they're
formulated then you want to see how you
can one-up all these content pieces in
all ways possible because you want to
position your article your how-to guide
your explainer as the best
so you're basically giving the best
possible content in terms of value in
terms of info so you want to one-up it
and always possible in terms of industry
expertise in terms of offering helpful
tips in terms of both the information
and quality and also the volume so you
might want to aim for 10k plus words
depending on how many how many words the
competitors have you want to look for
unique
stats unique data points unique insights
that the other articles don't have so
ways that you can one up them you might
want to include infographics or awesome
graphics breakdowns you might want to
include video explainers like we're
doing now you might want to cover
different angles you might want to add
podcasts essentially looking for all
these ways that the other articles are
ranking well are missing
and then adding all those opportunities
there once you've created your killer
article that far surpasses all the
competition that's ranking right now
then you want to do some outreach you
want to reach out to perhaps you
mentioned some tools perhaps you
mentioned some brands perhaps you
mentioned some influences in the article
perhaps you even linked out to them
giving them a backlink you can say look
hey i mentioned you in this article you
can email them you can cut in touch with
them and you can give them a link to it
and say would love to see if you could
give me a link back we've already linked
out to you i believe this is going to be
really useful for your audience
you'll have to do this to several
brands influencers tools software
companies whoever you linked out to and
some of them will accept some of them of
course won't and once you reach out to
enough if they believe there's value in
what you offer they'll give you a link
back over time this is going to ramp up
your own backlinks and then some people
will actually naturally link back to you
once they see the article online because
you're giving so much value it's far
superior perhaps you've got those unique
stats there so that outreach utilizing
the skyscraper technique to beat your
competition's content and then getting
links back is another way to build free
links free quality links to your site
third way is through partnerships so
looking for companies agencies brands
influencers you name it that offer a
complementary service to yours so
perhaps not direct competitors but maybe
someone offers something that you can
add as a bolt on maybe a client you've
worked in the past that's in a similar
industry to yourself that maybe offers
some kind of add-on a complimentary
service that your clients can enjoy so
for example us at webtreesuk.com we
offer websites and seo strategies that
generate leads and sales
so we might look for an analytics
company perhaps a company that offers
maybe heat maps or detailed analytics
software for your website so you can
identify visitor activity identify leads
and all that good stuff on the back end
so we might reach out to analytics
software company and say hey guys love
what you're doing we're doing x we
believe that we could complement your
offerings by working together on maybe a
video maybe a podcast maybe a how-to
detailed guide and let's create some
content together
let's boost both our seos let's perhaps
build a video on how you can
the three top ways to use analytics to
ramp up inbound leads on your websites
maybe give them some content ideas and
your outreach when you reach out to the
decision makers on linkedin an email
once you find a company that's happy to
work with you you create this video you
create this article you create this
awesome guide maybe even you team up on
a podcast then when the article goes
live you put unique articles on your
website for one angle of it you put
another guide on their website and then
you can link back to each other's
company so you create a quality backlink
from them to you and likewise from you
to them you can do this a couple times
you've reached out to several partners
and you're basically creating free links
to each other
it's great in two ways it builds up
strengthens relationships with partner
companies that could potentially pass
you clients that need what you do and
you can pass clients to them so great
business and revenue revenue opportunity
there and also great for your seo
because you're building links together
on complementary companies sites
the fourth way is through guest blogging
so many sites media sites news sites pr
sites and more offer guest blogging
opportunities i recommend you find an
industry relevant site for your industry
check how you can apply to write for
them and then either email them or
perhaps find the decision maker on
linkedin send them a personalized invite
there's not many people do that's a nice
way to stand up from the crowd and then
basically say look
we're in similar industries i can offer
this kind of value these kind of
insights this story that i believe will
be of value to your audience what's the
best way to get in touch and put
together this article
so
one way to actually find these sites
quite easily is to search your industry
plus
write for us so for example that might
be crm plus right for us you literally
search that on google or in our case web
design
space write for us or you might say web
design space guest article this way i'm
putting my industry keyword that's right
for us or i might put seo space right
for us i search for that on google again
use your industry keyword
space right for us or guest blogging
opportunities or something similar and
then you'll find a bunch of sites and
you'll actually find their direct page
where you can apply to be a writer for
them once you get some sites once you
connect with them and they accept you to
write as a guest blogger once you've
written a killer article they will
usually allow you to either put a
backlink to your site for one of your
target search terms your target keywords
and the article themselves or many will
just have a about the author section
which is at the end of the article where
you can put a little bio for yourself a
little description and a link back to
your site so make sure you check their
regulations make sure you check where
you're allowed to do the backlink add
that in there and again a nice way some
of these sites will have some great
domain authority so a nice way to get a
quality link back to your website
and the fifth and final way to build
free backlinks for your website is to
use haro sites h-a-r-o that stands for
help a reporter out so you can check out
a site like
helperreporter.com where you can
basically be connected and get updates
on news media and stories around your
industry you can start on a free plan
you get requests emailed across you'll
be notified for them you can reply to
any that are relevant that you can add
insight ad offering add stories to and
if your response gets picked up by a
company you can then earn and request a
link back to your site from the relevant
news pr or media site so again you can
simply sign up to the free plan get
notified and if one of your stories one
of your information that you submit gets
picked up you can request a link back to
your site
and there you have it that is five
straightforward ways to build quality
backlinks for your website boost your
domain authority boost your organic
rankings in google your traffic and
ultimately if done right your leads and
your sales opportunities hope you found
this episode of use as always if you
enjoyed it a quick subscribe on youtube
or a rating on your audio podcast
channel really means a lot and goes a
long way so thanks in advance and with
that i should catch you on the next
episode cheers